# NDECOAX
========================================================================================================================== 

============================================================================================================================== 
				NDECOAX Program Version 1.0 

-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
General Usage Notes: 
-------------------- 
-The C++ program, named  NDECOAX is capable of the analysis of generic multilayered dielectric media in the vicinity of Open ended coaxial probe(OECP). 
-The implementation of the program is based upon the client-server model. 
-The description of the structure and the associated files of the program is given in the paper. 

Program file description: 
------------------------- 
a. LayeredMedia.cc: 

This file contain the class functions of the C++ class, LayeredMedia for setting different parameters such as dimensions and material properties of OECP and layered media. The integrands in equation (6) (see article) are also defined in this file through class functions. Therefore, this file must include the Bessel.h (Utility function) which contains the declaration of Bessel functions required for calculation of integrands. 

b. Calculate_admittance.cc: 

This file contains the computation of each integral in equation (6) inspired by authors previous work [1] [2]. Various parameters set in the    LayeredMedia class and integrands are accessed through a class pointer. This file calls the numerical integration routines based on adaptive Gauss-Lobotto quadrature defined in Integration.cc. Therefore, this file includes the header file Integration.h, where the functions for Adaptive Gauss-Lobotto Quadrature numerical integration  are declared. 

c. NDECOAX.cc: 

This file contain the main() function, in which the dimensions and material properties of OECP and layered media are defined. For lossy dielectric media the dispersion characteristics of the material is read from a separate data file. All the parameters are passed to C++ class  LayeredMedia through a class object defined in main() for each frequency. In addition, main() define the parameters of integration such as path and tolerance of numerical integration and calls the integration functions defined in Calculate_admittance.cc by passing the LayeredMedia class object and integration parameters. The computed results of aperture admittance for each frequency is saved in the output file. Through run time unix system calls to plot utility Gnuplot, using an interface  Gnuplot_interface.cc, developed and provided by the authors, various plots are generated. 

d. Utility Functions: 

Various utility functions required for the execution of the program are defined in the following files. 
 i. Bessel.cc: 
	This file implements the accurate trigonometric expansions of Bessel functions of first kind and integer order for complex 
	arguments [3]. 

 ii. Integration.cc: 
	The program performs the integration of the function in equation (6) using  adaptive Gauss-Lobotto Quadrature using quadl function [4]. 

 iii. Gnuplot_interface.cc: 
	Execution of the program will generate the data as well as plots using the plot utility Gnuplot through linux system calls. 

References: 

1. Dhanesh G. Kurup, ”Analytical Expressions for Spatial-Domain Greens Functions in Layered Media,” in IEEE Transactions on Antennas and Propagation, vol. 63, no. 11, pp. 4944-4951, Nov. 2015. 

2. P. Mathur, D. G. Kurup, M. D. Perez, S. Redzwan Mohd Shah, J. Velander and R. Augustine, “An Efficient Method for computing the 
Interaction of Open Ended Circular Waveguide with a Layered Media”, Progress In Electromagnetics Research Letters, Vol. 76, 55-61, 2018. 

3. D. G. Kurup and A. Koithyar, “New Expansions of Bessel Functions of First Kind and Complex Argument,” in IEEE Transactions on Antennas 
and Propagation, Vol. 61, No. 5, 2708-2713, May 2013. 

4. Gander, W. and Gautschi W., “Adaptive quadrature-Revisited,” BIT Numerical Mathematics, Vol. 40, No. 1, 84-101, 2000. 

Executing under linux platform: 
------------------------------- 
-The program can be compiled using the provided Makefile. 
-The executable file generated by the program is NDECOAX.exe 
-Execution of the progran requires Gnuplot for the generation of graphs. 


Downloading and Setting up the Program 
---------------------------------------- 
1. Unzip the compressed file NDECOAX.zip into the folder. 
2. Enter "make" in the command prompt to compile the program. 
3  Enter "./NDECOAX.exe" to run the program. 
4. First test case is provided for test run. 


Dependencies 
------------ 
1. gcc /  g++ for C++ Compiler 
2. gnuplot for generation of plots 




Any querries regarding the pogram can be addressed to: 
------------------------------------------------------ 
E-mail: p_mathur@blr.amrita.edu. 



Copyright and Licencing information: 
------------------------------------ 

%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% 
% 
%  Licensing: 
% 
%    This code is distributed under the GNU General Public License 3 (GPLv3). 
% 
%  Modified: 
% 
%   28 August 2018 
% 
%  Authors: 
% 
%   Parul Mathur, Mauricio D. Perez b , Robin Augustine b , D. G. Kurup 
%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%%% 




